1. Cancers (Basel). 2026 Mar 29;18(7):1106. doi: 10.3390/cancers18071106.

Risk of Radiation-Associated Contralateral Breast Cancer in Germline Mutation 
Carriers: A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review.

Prihharsanti CHN(1), Prajoko YW(2), Respati DRP(3), Tjandra KC(3), Mutmainnah 
F(4), Rismadha MB(3), Nugrahani ASD(5), Aryasatya DP(3), Manik AV(6), Nurkolis 
F(7)(8)(9), Limijadi EKS(10).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Universitas Diponegoro, Semarang 50275, Indonesia.
(2)Department of Oncology Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Diponegoro, 
Semarang 50275, Indonesia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Diponegoro, Semarang 50275, Indonesia.
(4)Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Andalas, Padang 25163, Indonesia.
(5)Medical Science in Clinical Investigation, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.
(6)Oncology Research, University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PL, UK.
(7)Program of Basic Medical Science, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Airlangga, 
Surabaya 60131, Indonesia.
(8)Medical Research Center of Indonesia, Surabaya 60281, Indonesia.
(9)Institute for Research and Community Service, State Islamic University of 
Sunan Kalijaga (UIN Sunan Kalijaga), Yogyakarta 55281, Indonesia.
(10)Department of Clinical Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas 
Diponegoro, Semarang 50275, Indonesia.

Background/Objectives: Contralateral breast cancer (CBC) is a significant 
concern among breast cancer survivors, particularly in those with moderator-high 
penetrance germline mutations such as BRCA1, BRCA2, CHEK2, and ATM. While 
radiotherapy (RT) is a crucial component of breast cancer (BC) treatment, its 
potential role in increasing CBC risk remains unclear. This systematic review 
and meta-analysis aim to evaluate the incidence of radiation-induced CBC in 
germline mutation carriers. Methods: Following PRISMA guidelines, we conducted a 
comprehensive search in six electronic databases (PubMed, Scopus, Cochrane 
Library, ProQuest, EBSCO, and Epistemonikos) for studies published fifteen years 
prior, up to August 2025. We included cohort and case-control studies assessing 
the association between RT and CBC incidence in germline mutation carriers. A 
meta-analysis was performed using a random-effects model to estimate cumulative 
risk (CR) and rate ratios (RR). Results: Seven studies were included. The 5-year 
cumulative risk (CR) of contralateral breast cancer (CBC) was 0.55 for BRCA1/2, 
0.89 for ATM, and 0.80 for CHEK2 carriers. At 10 years, overall CR increased to 
0.65, with ATM and CHEK2 remaining high. Rate ratio (RR) analysis showed a 
significant risk for ATM (2.98), while overall RR indicated more than a two-fold 
increased CBC risk with radiotherapy (RR = 2.70 common-effect; 2.53 
random-effects). Conclusions: Radiotherapy significantly increases contralateral 
breast cancer risk, particularly in ATM and CHEK2 carriers, emphasizing the 
importance of personalized genetic risk stratification in treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers18071106
PMID: 41976331


2. Nat Rev Cancer. 2026 Apr 13. doi: 10.1038/s41568-026-00916-0. Online ahead of 
print.

Rethinking ovarian cancer III: the past decade and future directions.

Balkwill FR(1), Laumont CM(2), Burdett N(3), Le Saux O(4), Garsed DW(3), Grither 
WR(5), Nijhuis AM(6), Recouvreux MS(7), Kang Z(8), Zhang R(9), Chiappinelli 
KB(10), Lee JS(11), Laniti DD(12), McNeish I(6), Ahmed AA(13), Rottapel R(14), 
Conejo-Garcia JR(15), Odunsi K(16), Pharoah PDP(17), Zamarin D(18), Ishak CA(9), 
Fotopoulou C(19), Buckanovich RJ(20), Labidi-Galy I(21), Brenton JD(22), Lengyel 
E(16), Cook DP(23), George SHL(24), Lheureux S(14), Drapkin R(25), Nephew 
KP(26), Adams S(27), Pathania S(28), Nelson BH(2), Färkkilä A(8), Fuh K(29), 
Neel BG(30), Bowtell DD(31).

Author information:
(1)Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK. 
F.balkwill@qmul.ac.uk.
(2)Deeley Research Centre, BC Cancer Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, 
Canada.
(3)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.
(5)Washington University in St. Louis, Saint Louis, MO, USA.
(6)Imperial College London, London, UK.
(7)University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(8)University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(9)University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(10)George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(11)Frazer Institute, The University of Queensland, Woolloongabba, Queensland, 
Australia.
(12)Lausanne University Hospital and Lausanne Branch of the Ludwig Institute for 
Cancer Research, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(13)MRC Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(14)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(15)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC, USA.
(16)University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(17)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(18)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(19)Department of Surgery and Cancer, Faculty of Medicine of Imperial College 
London, London, UK.
(20)Magee Womens Research Institute, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA.
(21)Université de Genève and Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(22)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, 
UK.
(23)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.
(24)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(25)University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA.
(26)Indiana University School of Medicine, Bloomington, IN, USA.
(27)University of New Mexico Comprehensive Cancer Centre, Albuquerque, NM, USA.
(28)University of Massachusetts, Boston, MA, USA.
(29)University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(30)NYU Grossman School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(31)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 
David.bowtell@petermac.org.

Approximately 80% of deaths from ovarian cancer are due to high-grade serous 
carcinoma (HGSC), which has the highest proportion of BRCA1 or BRCA2 
(BRCA1/BRCA2) mutations of any cancer type and is a highly chromosomally 
unstable disease. Despite the introduction of targeted therapies benefitting 
some patients with HGSC as well as surgical advances, only 50% of patients will 
survive more than 5 years, and just 30% of patients who present with advanced 
disease without BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations will survive this long. This Expert 
Recommendation is based on discussions among emerging and leading ovarian cancer 
researchers at the 15th Helene Harris Memorial Trust International Forum on 
ovarian cancer hosted by Ovarian Cancer Action in October 2024. The meeting 
considered advances in HGSC research and treatment made over the last decade, 
current challenges, emerging technologies in prevention, early detection, and 
treatment, and research priorities for the years ahead.

© 2026. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41568-026-00916-0
PMID: 41975230

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: J.D.B. is a shareholder in 
Tailor Bio. A.A.A. is a founder, director, and consultant for Singular Bio Ltd. 
S.H.L.G. receives research grants from Pfizer, Advenchen, and GSK. K.O. is a 
co-founder of Tactiva Therapeutics. D.Z. reports institutional grants from 
Merck, Genentech, AstraZeneca, Xencor, Zymeworks, and Synthekine; personal fees 
from AstraZeneca, Xencor, Memgen, Daichi Sankyo, Gilead, Synthekine, Immunos, 
Hervolution, Accurius, Replimune, and Calidi Biotherapeutics; and holds a patent 
on the use of oncolytic Newcastle Disease Virus for cancer therapy. K.B.C. 
reports consulting fees from ROME Therapeutics and Daiichi Sankyo, and has a 
sponsored research agreement with Enara Bio. J.R.C.-G. receives consulting fees 
from Alloy Therapeutics and licensing fees from Anixa Biosciences; holds 
intellectual property with Anixa Biosciences and Compass Therapeutics; and is 
co-founder of Cellepus Therapeutics, a CAR gamma/delta T cell company. E.L. 
receives research funding from AbbVie through the University of Chicago to study 
ovarian cancer. D.D.L. has received research grants from Hoffmann-La Roche AG 
and 10xGenomics. S.A. receives clinical trial funding from AstraZeneca. F.R.B. 
receives an honorarium from GSK and research funding from AstraZeneca. D.D.B. 
has received research grant funding from Hoffmann-La Roche and Astra Zeneca. 
 C.M.L., N.B., O.L.S., D.W.G., W.R.G., A.M.N., M.S.R., Z.K., R.Z., J.S.L., I.M., 
R.R., P.D.P.P., C.A.I., C.F., R.J.B., I.L.-G., D.P.C., S.L., R.D., K.P.N., S.P., 
B.H.N., A.F., K.F., and B.G.N. all declare no competing interests.


3. Cells. 2026 Mar 26;15(7):588. doi: 10.3390/cells15070588.

PARP Inhibition in Prostate Cancer: Current Status, Resistance Mechanisms, and 
Clinical Challenges.

Matsuoka T(1)(2)(3)(4), Akamatsu S(5), Ong CJ(1)(3), Gleave ME(1)(3), Wang 
Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Vancouver Prostate Centre, Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, BC V5Z 1M9, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Experimental Therapeutics, BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC V5Z 
1L3, Canada.
(3)Department of Urologic Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V5Z 1M9, Canada.
(4)Department of Urology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto 
606-8507, Japan.
(5)Department of Urology, Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya University, Nagoya 
466-8550, Japan.

Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) have reshaped therapy for 
advanced prostate cancer, yet durable benefit remains concentrated in 
BRCA1/2-altered tumors, especially BRCA2, and most responders eventually 
relapse. Here, we frame PARPi response and resistance through a unifying model 
in which DNA damage response (DDR) rewiring (e.g., homologous recombination 
repair (HRR) restoration, fork protection, checkpoint tolerance, and altered 
drug handling) converges with treatment-induced dormancy and quiescent 
therapy-tolerant residual states that sustain minimal residual disease (MRD) 
under androgen receptor pathway inhibition (ARPI) and PARP blockade. We 
synthesize clinical and translational evidence for PARPi monotherapy and 
PARPi-based combinations across disease states. In first-line metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), PARPi plus ARPI consistently 
prolongs radiographic progression-free survival, with the greatest benefit in 
HRR-altered tumors, and emerging overall-survival signals in selected subgroups. 
In later-line settings, monotherapy activity is most robust in BRCA2-mutated 
disease, whereas non-BRCA HRR alterations show heterogeneous and often modest 
responses, underscoring the need for biomarkers beyond gene panels. We also 
discuss combination strategies with DDR-targeting agents, radioligand therapies, 
and immunotherapy, and summarize ongoing phase III programs in metastatic 
castration-sensitive prostate cancer (mCSPC). Finally, we outline practical 
considerations for biomarker-informed patient selection, monitoring, sequencing, 
and toxicity management, with particular emphasis on intercepting MRD and 
resistance evolution.

DOI: 10.3390/cells15070588
PMCID: PMC13072167
PMID: 41972679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


4. Biochem Biophys Rep. 2026 Mar 31;46:102564. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2026.102564. 
eCollection 2026 Jun.

From mutation to treatment: The dual role of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in gynecological 
malignancy development and management a systematic review.

Georgy DM(1), Sedeek HN(1), Abaza NE(1), Eldeeb SEK(1), Khamis SM(1), Elgamil 
MR(1), Magar RW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Science, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.
(2)Transplantation Immunology Department, Urology and Nephrology Center, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt.

The Breast Cancer gene 1 (BRCA1) and Breast Cancer gene 2 (BRCA2) genes are 
pivotal human tumor suppressor genes that are essential for preserving genomic 
stability. Mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 prevent homologous recombination, which 
is regulated by cell cycle checkpoints, thereby hindering the repair of 
double-stranded DNA. The ultimate result of genomic instability is characterized 
by altered transcriptional control and abnormal expression of essential 
cell-cycle proteins. As significant genetic factors, any mutations in the BRCA1 
and BRCA2 genes substantially elevated a woman's risk of getting ovarian and 
breast cancer, often resulting in the development of these cancers earlier in 
life. Treatment of breast and ovarian cancer brought on by BRCA gene mutations 
focuses heavily on germline BRCA-mutated (gBRCAm) testing, targeted therapies 
such as Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARP inhibitors), in addition 
to other options such as traditional chemotherapy and immunotherapy. This 
systematic review examines the crucial role of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in DNA repair, as 
well as how their mutations contribute to the development of inherited 
gynecological malignancies, and potential treatments targeting BRCA-deficient 
tumors. Also discusses resistance mechanisms to PARP inhibitors, the potential 
for combination therapies (PARP inhibitors + immune checkpoint inhibitors), and 
Advances in nanotechnology-based drug delivery, dynamic biomarker development, 
and CRISPR-based gene repair for BRCA mutations as future challenges and 
direction for curable patient.

© 2026 Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2026.102564
PMCID: PMC13068609
PMID: 41970631

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


5. Transl Oncol. 2026 Apr 11;68:102757. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2026.102757. Online
 ahead of print.

PARP inhibitors target cellular energy metabolism: Mechanisms of action and 
clinical implications.

Li J(1), Mu D(2), Li J(3), Lan M(4), Wu W(5), Zhang S(6), Dai Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Gynecologic and Obstetrics Centre, The 
First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, China; Jilin 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Female Reproductive Health, Jilin 130012, China; 
Laboratory of Cancer Precision Medicine, The First Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin 130012, China.
(2)Department of Operation Room, The First Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin 130012, China.
(3)Department of Blood Transfusion, The First Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin 130012, China.
(4)Laboratory of Cancer Precision Medicine, The First Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, China.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin 130012, China. Electronic address: wu_w@jlu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Gynecologic and Obstetrics Centre, The 
First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, China; Jilin 
Provincial Key Laboratory of Female Reproductive Health, Jilin 130012, China. 
Electronic address: slzhang@jlu.edu.cn.
(7)Laboratory of Cancer Precision Medicine, The First Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin 130012, China. Electronic address: 
daiyun@jlu.edu.cn.

Poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) is a multifunctional ribozyme that is involved 
in a variety of biological functions, including DNA repair, modulation of 
chromatin structure, RNA transcription, cell division, metabolism, mitochondrial 
biology, oxidative stress biology, and cell death and differentiation. PARP 
inhibitors (PARPi) are a new class of targeted drugs widely used in the 
treatment of cancer with BRCA1/2 mutations and non-malignant diseases. Although 
PARPi has been known to affect the energy metabolism of cells, its exact effects 
and mechanisms on this process have not yet been fully understood. In this 
review article, we aim to provide a comprehensive overview of the current 
understanding of PARPi's effects on various physiological processes involving 
cellular energy metabolism, highlighting the importance of further exploring how 
the human body maintains the balance of energy metabolism during PARPi therapy. 
We also highlight the importance of future studies on the relationship between 
PARPi treatment and the depletion of NAD+ levels, the activation of PARP1, or 
the transition between different patterns of energy metabolism, to provide more 
insights into the safety and efficacy of PARPi in clinical practice.

Copyright © 2026 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2026.102757
PMID: 41967334

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


6. Clin Genitourin Cancer. 2026 Mar 19:102545. doi: 10.1016/j.clgc.2026.102545. 
Online ahead of print.

Prognostic Significance of Circulating Tumor DNA in Metastatic Prostate Cancer: 
A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.

Ye D(1), Zhao Y(2), Yang L(3), Sun X(2), Cao T(2), Yuan M(2), Qiao T(2), Xing 
L(3), Sun X(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Medical Imaging, Shandong Second Medical University, Weifang, 
China; Center for Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Shandong Cancer 
Hospital and Institute, Shandong First Medical University and Shandong Academy 
of Medical Sciences, Jinan, China.
(2)Department of Graduate, Shandong First Medical University (Shandong Academy 
of Medical Sciences), Jinan, China; Center for Nuclear Medicine and Molecular 
Imaging, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong First Medical 
University and Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, China.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy, Shandong Cancer Hospital and Institute, Shandong 
First Medical University and Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Jinan, China.
(4)Center for Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Shandong Cancer Hospital 
and Institute, Shandong First Medical University and Shandong Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Jinan, China. Electronic address: xrsun@sdfmu.edu.cn.

Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) is a minimally invasive biomarker that enables 
molecular profiling and prognostic stratification in cancer. This meta-analysis 
evaluated the prognostic significance of ctDNA in metastatic prostate cancer 
(mPC). PubMed, Web of Science and Scopus were searched from inception to 
September 15, 2025 for studies assessing ctDNA and survival in prostate cancer. 
Hazard ratios (HRs) for progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival 
(OS) were extracted; when unavailable, HRs were reconstructed from published 
survival curves. Meta-analyses were performed according to ctDNA detectability, 
ctDNA levels and ctDNA-detected gene mutations. About 13 studies including 
18,575 patients were eligible. Across 9 studies, detectable ctDNA was associated 
with significantly worse PFS (HR = 1.65, 95% CI: 1.22-2.22) and OS (HR = 2.20, 
95% CI: 1.92-2.51) versus undetectable ctDNA. In patients receiving androgen 
receptor pathway inhibitors and in mCRPC, ctDNA negativity consistently 
correlated with longer PFS and OS. Gene-level analyses showed that AR, CDK6/12, 
MYC, PIK3CA, and BRCA1/2 mutations in ctDNA were linked to inferior PFS, whereas 
BRCA1/2 mutations did not significantly worsen OS. About 5 studies examined 
ctDNA levels: higher ctDNA levels predicted poorer survival (PFS: HR = 1.68, 95% 
CI: 1.18-2.38; OS: HR = 2.43, 95% CI: 1.50-3.93), and lower levels were 
associated with better outcomes in ARPI-treated and mCRPC patients. In mPC, 
ctDNA detectability and elevated ctDNA levels are strongly associated with 
adverse survival. Quantitative ctDNA profiling, including assessment of key gene 
mutations, offers a clinically relevant tool to refine risk stratification and 
to support molecularly informed treatment selection and monitoring where 
clinically validated.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clgc.2026.102545
PMID: 41966893

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have stated that they 
have no conflicts of interest.


7. NPJ Breast Cancer. 2026 Apr 11. doi: 10.1038/s41523-026-00947-8. Online ahead
of  print.

PARP inhibition with olaparib and talazoparib for HER2-negative advanced breast 
cancer-Results from the prospective PRAEGNANT registry.

Hörner M(1), Hartkopf A(2), John N(1)(3), Ziegler P(1), Häberle L(1)(3), Uhrig 
S(1), Goossens C(1), Amann N(1), Cieslik JP(4), Tretschock LM(5), Dannehl D(6), 
Deutsch TM(5), Dimpfl M(7), Ehlert M(8), Eichstädt K(9), Englisch A(2), Köpke 
MB(10), Krückel A(1), Link T(11), Müller A(2), Reinhardt K(9), Roth J(12), 
Schäffler H(13), Sych L(14), Tauber N(15), Tegeler CM(2), Wichmann C(11), 
Banys-Paluchowski M(15), Princk H(15), Rody A(15), Brucker SY(2), Ditsch N(10), 
Ettl J(16)(17), Fehm T(4), Hack CC(1), Hadji P(18), Hein A(19), Janni WW(13), 
Kolberg HC(20), Lüftner D(21), Lux MP(22), Müller V(8), Taran FA(6), Tesch 
H(23), Wallwiener D(2), Marmé F(7), Seitz S(12), Belleville E(24), Michel 
LL(14)(25), Wallwiener M(9), Fasching PA(26), Schneeweiss A(14)(25), Maurer 
C(27).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN (CCC ER-EMN), 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Department of Women's Health, Tuebingen University, Tuebingen, Germany.
(3)Biostatistics Unit, Erlangen University Hospital, Department of Gynecology 
and Obstetrics, University Hospital Erlangen, Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Erlangen-EMN (CCC ER-EMN), Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg 
(FAU), Erlangen, Germany.
(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Center of Integrated Oncology ABCD, 
Medical Faculty, Heinrich Heine University and University Hospital Düsseldorf, 
Düsseldorf, Germany.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(6)Department of Gynecology and Gynecologic Oncology, Center for Integrated 
Oncology Aachen Bonn Cologne Düsseldorf, Medical Faculty and University Clinic 
of Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(7)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Medical Center Mannheim, 
Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(8)University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Department of Gynecology, University Hospital Halle, Halle, Germany.
(10)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University Hospital Augsburg, 
Augsburg, Germany.
(11)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Medical Faculty and University 
Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(12)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Caritas Hospital St. Josef, 
University Medical Center Regensburg,, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(13)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany.
(14)Department of Medical Oncology, National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), 
University Hospital Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.
(15)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Lübeck, Luebeck, Germany.
(16)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Klinikum Rechts Der Isar, Technical 
University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(17)Cancer Center Kempten/Allgäu (CCKA), Klinikum Kempten, Kempten, Germany.
(18)Frankfurt Center for Bone Health and Endocrinology, Frankfurt Am Main, 
Germany.
(19)Department of Gynecology, Klinikum Esslingen GmbH, Esslingen, Germany.
(20)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Marienhospital Bottrop, Bottrop, 
Germany.
(21)Immanuel Hospital Märkische Schweiz & Immanuel Campus Rüdersdorf, Medical 
University of Brandenburg Theodor-Fontane, Rüdersdorf bei Berlin, Germany.
(22)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Frauenklinik St. Louise, Paderborn, 
St. Josefs-Krankenhaus, Salzkotten, Vincenz Kliniken GmbH, Paderborn, Germany.
(23)Oncology Practice, Bethanien Hospital, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(24)ClinSol GmbH & Co. KG, Würzburg, Germany.
(25)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(26)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN (CCC ER-EMN), 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany. 
peter.fasching@uk-erlangen.de.
(27)Department of Gynecology and Gynecologic Oncology and Department I of 
Internal Medicine, Center for Integrated Oncology Aachen Bonn Cologne 
Duesseldorf, Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital Cologne, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations enable targeted therapies in human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative advanced breast cancer (ABC). The two 
poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors olaparib and 
talazoparib were introduced into clinical practice in 2018. Limited evidence 
about their routine clinical use highlights the importance of this analysis. We 
provide a real-world analysis for PARP-inhibitor use in ABC patients treated 
within the prospective German PRAEGNANT registry (NCT02338167). 152 patients 
with ABC receiving a PARP-inhibitor were included. Real-world progression-free 
survival (rwPFS) and real-world overall survival (rwOS) were calculated for all 
patients using the Kaplan-Meier method. Subgroups (line of therapy, metastasis 
timing, hormone receptor (HR) status, treatment: olaparib, talazoparib, among 
others), germline BRCA1, BRCA2 and PALB2 mutations and adverse events (AEs) were 
analyzed. The median rwPFS was 6.2 months (95% CI, 4.8-7.9) and the median rwOS 
was 17.1 months (95% CI, 14.4-22.3). Line of therapy, HR status and treatment 
(olaparib versus talazoparib) appeared to especially affect both rwPFS and rwOS. 
Among patients with a reported germline mutation, 36.1% had a BRCA1, 62.9% a 
BRCA2 and 1.0% a PALB2 mutation. In summary, outcomes were comparable to those 
reported in pivotal trials despite later-line use of PARP-inhibitors in this 
analysis.

© 2026. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41523-026-00947-8
PMID: 41965791

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: M.H. received research 
support from Helsinn Healthcare SA, honoraria from Lilly Deutschland GmbH, 
Thieme and travel support from Novartis, Lilly Deutschland GmbH, and 
AstraZeneca. A.H. received grants or contracts from ExactScience, Veracyte, 
consulting fees from Roche, Novartis, MSD, Agendia, AstraZeneca, GSK, 
ExactScience, Riemser, Teva, Onkowissen, Lilly, Gilead, Menarini Stemline, 
Pfizer, Amgen, Pierre Fabre, DaichiiSankyo, and payment or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus from Roche, Novartis, Lilly, MSD, 
AstraZeneca, Agendia, Seagen, GSK, ExactScience, Riemser, Teva, Onkowissen, 
Gilead, Menarini Stemline, Pfizer, Amgen, Pierre Fabre, Eisai, DaichiiSankyo, 
Thieme, Veracyte, Springer, support for attending meetings from Roche, Novartis, 
Lilly, AstraZeneca, GSK, ExactScience, Gilead, Menarini Stemline, Pfizer, 
DaichiiSankyo and Participation on Advisory Board from Novartis, Roche, Agendia, 
Lilly, Gilead, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, MSD, Daiichi Sankyo, GSK, Menarini Stemline, 
ExactScience, Eisai, Sandoz/Hexal. N.A. received honoraria for lectures and 
participation in advisory boards: Gilead, Pfizer, Novartis, and received support 
for attending meetings from AstraZeneca, Novartis. A.K. received lecture fees 
from Gilead and Novartis, honoria for written scientific work from Thieme as 
well as support for attending meetings from Lilly; T.L. received Consulting fees 
from Roche, Lilly, MSD, honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, 
manuscript writing or educational events from Amgen, Roche, MSD, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Lilly, GSK, Gilead, AstraZeneca, Daiichi Sankyo, Stemline, Seagen, 
Support for attending meetings and/or travel from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Gilead, 
Daiichi Sankyo, Stemline, Seagen, MSD, advisory board honoraria from MSD, Roche, 
Pfizer, Lilly, Myriad, Esai, GSK, Gilead, Daiichi Sankyo, Roche, AstraZeneca; 
A.E. received lecture honoraria from AstraZeneca. H.S. received honoraria from 
Pfizer, Novartis, GILEAD, Lilly, Daiichi, Eickeler Veranstaltungen, Novartis, 
GILEAD. N.T. received honoraria for lectures and advisory boards: Novartis, 
Exact Sciences, Pfizer, Thieme, AstraZeneca, Grants or contracts from: Novartis, 
Travel expenses: Novartis, Daiichi sankyo, AstraZeneca, Participation on a Data 
safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board from Novartis, Thieme, C.G. received 
speaker honoraria from Novartis Pharma GmbH and ClinSol GmbH & Co. KG. C.M.T. 
received honoraria from AstraZeneca and is a shareholder in Curevac N.V. and 
BioNTech SE. M.B.-P. received grants or contracts from Korean Breast Cancer 
Society, Eugen & Irmgard Hahn Stiftung, EndoMag, Mammotome, MeritMedical, Sirius 
Medical, Gilead, Hologic, Exact Sciences, Claudia von Schilling Stiftung, Dampft 
Stiftung, Ehmann Stiftung, Savognin, payment for honoraria or lectures from 
Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, Pfm, Eli Lilly, Onkowissen, Seagen, AstraZeneca, Eisai, 
Amgen, Samsung, Canon, MSD, GSK, Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, Sirius Medical, 
Syantra, Resitu, Pierre Fabre, Exact Sciences, Aurikamed, Stemline, support for 
attending meetings from Eli Lilly, Exact Sciences, Pierre Fabre, Pfizer, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Roche, Stemline. S.Y.B. received institutional grants from Pfizer, 
Seagen, Daiichi-Sankyo, Gilead, Berlin-Chemie AG, AstraZeneca, Helsinn 
Healthcare S.A. and personal honoraria for lectures from AstraZeneca. CC.H. 
received honoraria for lectures from Novartis, Roche, Pfizer, Gilead, 
AstraZeneca, MSD, Daiichi Sankyo, Eisai, honoraria for participation in advisory 
boards from Roche, Daiichi Sankyo, MSD, Novartis and support for attending 
meetings from Daiichi Sankyo. D.L. reports consulting fees, honoraria, payment 
for expert testimony or support for attending meetings from Eli Lilly, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Gilead, Daiichi Sankyo, GSK, Loreal, Onkowissen, high5, MSD, 
AstraZeneca, AbbVie, Genmab. M.P.L reports payments for participation in 
Advisory Boards / Advisory from Novartis, Hexal, Agendia, Endomag, Lilly, MSD, 
Pfizer, Exact Sciences, Daiichi-Sankyo, Gilead, Roche, Stemline/ Menari-Group, 
AstraZeneca, Payment for lectures from Lilly, Roche, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, 
Exact Sciences, Daiichi-Sankyo, Grünenthal, GSK, Gilead, AstraZeneca and Eisai, 
support for attending meetings from Gilead, Daiichi-Sankyo, AstraZeneca and 
Pfizer, Participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board Pfizer 
PERFORM trial, Novartis BC-CAPTOR-trial, Novartis Caroleen trial and board 
membership for Deutsche Gesellschaft für Senologie e.V., Deutsche Akademie für 
Senologie and Participant in the Kommission Mamma der AGO e.V. and Receipt of 
equipment, materials, drugs, medical writing, gifts or other services from 
AstraZeneca Pfizer, V.M. received Speaker honoraria: AstraZeneca, arsTempi, 
Daiichi-Sankyo, Eisai, Pfizer, MSD, Medac, Novartis, Roche, Seagen, Onkowissen, 
high5 Oncology, Lilly, Medscape, Gilead, Pierre Fabre, iMED Institute, 
Consultancy honoraria: Roche, Pierre Fabre, PINK, ClinSol, Novartis, MSD, 
Daiichi-Sankyo, Eisai, Lilly, Seagen, Gilead, Stemline, Institutional research 
support: Novartis, Roche, Seagen, Genentech, AstraZeneca, Travel grants: Astra 
Zeneca, Roche, Pfizer, Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, V.M. is an editorial board member 
of the journal The Breast. F.-A.T. received consulting fees from GSK, AbbVie, 
MSD, Payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus from 
AstraZeneca, Roche, Novartis and Support for attending meetings and/or travel 
from AbbVie. A.S. received honoraria from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Aurikamed, Bayer, 
Celgene, ClinSol, Clovis Oncology, coma UroGyn, Connectmedica, Daiichi Sankyo, 
Gilead, GSK, if-kongress, I-MED, iOMEDICO, Lilly, MCI Deutschland, med publico, 
Menarini Stemline, Metaplan, MSD, Mylan, NeoConnect, NanoString Technologies, 
Novartis, Onkowissen, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre, promedicis, Roche, Seagen, 
streamedup, SYNLAB, Tesaro and travel support from AstraZeneca, Celgene, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Gilead, Pfizer, Roche; M.B-P. received honoraria for lectures and 
advisory boards: Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, pfm, Eli Lilly, Onkowissen, Seagen, 
AstraZeneca, Eisai, Amgen, Samsung, Canon, MSD, GSK, Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, 
Sirius Medical, Syantra, resitu, Pierre Fabre, ExactSciences, Aurikamed. Study 
support: Korean Breast Cancer Society, Eugen & Irmgard Hahn Stiftung, EndoMag, 
Mammotome, MeritMedical, Sirius Medical, Gilead, Hologic, ExactSciences, Claudia 
von Schilling Stiftung, Damp Stiftung, Ehmann Stiftung Savognin. Travel 
expenses: Eli Lilly, ExactSciences, Pierre Fabre, Pfizer, Daiichi Sankyo, Roche, 
Stemline. A.R. received honoraria for lectures: Roche, Pfizer, Novartis, Celgen, 
LEO Pharma, Novartis, ExactSciences, Pierre Fabre, Lilly, Seagen, Targos and 
honoraria for Participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board 
from Roche, Daiichi Sankyo, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Celgen, Eisai, Novartis, MSD, 
Hexal, Amgen, Exact Sciences, Pierre Fabre, RG. Advisory Boards: Roche, 
AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Celgen, Eisai, Novartis, MSD, Hexal, Amgen, ExactSciences, 
Pierre Fabre. J.E. received Speakers Bureau, Travel Grants or Advisory Boards: 
Eli Lilly, Novartis, Pfizer, Gilead, Daiichi Sankyo, GSK, Onkowissen, 
AstraZeneca, Menarini. T.F. received as consulting fees or honoraria for 
lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events personal payments from Onkowissen, Medconcept, Payments to institution 
from AstraZeneca, Daichii Sankyo, Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, AbbVie. MSD, Support 
for attending meetings and/or travel from Roche, Daichii Sankyo, Pfizer; S.S. 
received consulting fees or Payment or honoraria for lectures, presentations, 
speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational events from AstraZeneca, 
Daiichi-Sankyo, GE HealthCare, Gilead, GSK, Lilly, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, 
Stemline Menarini and support for attending meetings from AstraZeneca, GE 
HealthCare, Gilead, Lilly, Pfizer, Stemline Menarini. L.L.M. received fees for 
speaking engagements and accommodation expenses in connection with congress 
participations from Roche, Pfizer, Lilly Pharma, Daiichi Sankyo, AstraZeneca, 
Onkowissen, Gilead, Novartis. W.W.J. received research Grants and/or honoraria 
from AstraZeneca, Cellgene, Chugai, Daiichi Sankyo, Eisai, ExactScience, Gilead, 
GSK, Guardant Health, Janssen, Lilly, Menarini Stemline, MSD, NeoGenomics, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Seagen. M.W. received Grants or 
contracts from Novartis, Consulting fees from AstraZeneca, Daichi-Sankyo, 
Pfizer, Novartis, Roche, Ethicon, Onkowissen, Menari, Storz, PlantTec, honoraria 
for lectures, presentations, speakers bureaus, manuscript writing or educational 
events from AstraZeneca, Daichi-Sankyo, Pfizer, Novartis, Roche, Ethicon, 
Onkowissen, Menari, Storz, PlantTec, Payment for expert testimony from 
Astra-Zeneca, Daichi-Sankyo, Pfizer, Novartis, Roche, Menari, fees for 
participation on a Data Safety Monitoring Board or Advisory Board from 
Astra-Zeneca, Daichi-Sankyo, Pfizer, Novartis, Roche, Ethicon, Onkowissen, 
Menari, Storz, PlantTec and is an ESGE AdBoard member, AGE Steering Board, 
Member of AGO “uterus committee”, Coordinator S2-LL Uterine sarcomas, P.A.F. has 
received institutional funding from BioNTech, Cepheid and Pfizer and peronal 
honoraria from Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Daiichi Sankyo, AstraZeneca, Lilly, 
Eisai, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Pierre Fabre, SeaGen, Agendia, Sanofi Aventis, 
Gilead and Mylan for consulting, participation in advisory boards and steering 
committees and/or lectures. His institution conducts research for Novartis. C.M. 
received consulting fees from AbbVie, Celgene/BMS, Pfizer, Nordic Pharma, 
honoraria for lectures or presentations from Daiichi Sankyo, Novartis, Lilly and 
support for attending meetings and/or travel from Brustkrebs Deutschland eV, 
Novartis, Roche, Mundipharma, Amgen, Servier Deutschland GmbH, AbbVie. The other 
authors do not have a competing interest.


8. Biomark Res. 2026 Apr 10;14(1):40. doi: 10.1186/s40364-026-00915-1.

The molecular landscape of the C1498 murine acute myeloid leukemia cell line.

Ghetti M(#)(1), De Santis I(#)(2), Tolomeo D(3), Ruggieri F(1)(4), Bracci C(1), 
Bochicchio MT(1), Paganelli M(1), Ferrari A(1), Sangaletti S(5), Storlazzi 
CT(3), Simonetti G(6).

Author information:
(1)Biosciences Laboratory, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori 
(IRST) "Dino Amadori", via Piero Maroncelli, 40, 47014, Meldola (FC), Italy.
(2)Unit of Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo 
Studio dei Tumori (IRST) "Dino Amadori", Meldola (FC), Italy.
(3)Department of Biosciences, Biotechnology and Environment, University of Bari 
Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences (DIMEC), University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(5)Molecular Immunology Unit, Department of Experimental Oncology, Fondazione 
IRCCS Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(6)Biosciences Laboratory, IRCCS Istituto Romagnolo per lo Studio dei Tumori 
(IRST) "Dino Amadori", via Piero Maroncelli, 40, 47014, Meldola (FC), Italy. 
giorgia.simonetti@irst.emr.it.
(#)Contributed equally

The murine C1498 cell line is one of the most widely used syngeneic models to 
investigate acute myeloid leukemia (AML) pathogenesis, tumor-host interactions 
and therapeutic responses. However, in the absence of a comprehensive molecular 
characterization it remains impossible to reliably associate genetic lesions 
with disease phenotype, drug sensitivity or resistance. Here, we provide an 
integrated genomic and functional analysis combining whole genome and whole 
transcriptome sequencing (WGS and WTS), multicolor fluorescent in situ 
hybridization (M-FISH) and drug sensitivity assays. WGS identified 2,007 coding 
variants absent from population databases, including functionally relevant 
alterations in AML-related genes. These comprised deleterious or likely 
pathogenic variants in Nf1, Gnas and Trp53 (murine ortholog of the human TP53 
gene), a splice-site mutation in Crebbp and truncating variants in Bcor and 
Tet2. Structural variant analysis revealed 1,767 events, including deletions of 
Trp53, Nf1, Brca1, Csnk1a1, Ctnna1, Luc7l2 and cohesin genes, and Myc tandem 
duplication. Copy number variant profiling detected ten tumor-specific 
alterations, including amplifications of Stk32b and Bub1, the latter linked to 
aggressive cancer phenotypes. Variants integration uncovered biallelic 
disruption of Trp53, double-hit events affecting additional tumor suppressors 
(mutation and deletion: Nf1, Recql4) and oncogenes (mutation and amplification: 
Idh1, Gnas, Pik3cd, Vav1). Functionally, C1498 demonstrated in vitro a dose- and 
time-dependent response to venetoclax/azacitidine consistent with resistance, in 
line with the presence of altered Trp53 and recent prognostic AML signatures. 
This comprehensive molecular framework establishes C1498 as a genetically 
defined AML model and provides a valuable resource to inform biomarker-driven 
preclinical studies and translational research aimed at overcoming 
venetoclax/azacitidine resistance.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1186/s40364-026-00915-1.

DOI: 10.1186/s40364-026-00915-1
PMCID: PMC13067734
PMID: 41964082

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethics approval and consent to 
participate: Not applicable. Consent for publication: Not applicable. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.


9. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2026 Apr 21;123(16):e2513742123. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2513742123. Epub 2026 Apr 10.

Resistance to neoadjuvant talazoparib in triple-negative breast cancer by 
BRN2-induced ATR/STAT3 pathways or SHLD2 subclone expansion.

Abdulkareem NM(#)(1), Jiang Y(#)(1), Qi Y(1)(2), Liu X(3), Zhang X(1), Cai S(1), 
Shao J(1), Jeter-Jones S(1), Rinkenbaugh AL(1), Cheng CC(1), Hancock F(1), 
Schwartz J(4), Litton JK(4), Chang JT(2)(3), Piwnica-Worms H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030.
(3)Department of Integrative Biology and Pharmacology, Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 
77030.
(4)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030.
(#)Contributed equally

Intrinsic and acquired resistance to poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 
inhibitors (PARPi) remains a major barrier in treating homologous recombination 
(HR) repair-deficient tumors, including those with germline or somatic BRCA1/2 
mutations. Although PARPi are FDA approved for adjuvant treatment of locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer in patients with germline BRCA1/2 
mutations, emerging data support their use as monotherapy in the neoadjuvant 
setting. Promising safety profiles of newer-generation PARPi further support 
this potential. However, resistance mechanisms specific to the neoadjuvant 
setting are poorly understood. To address this gap, we leveraged resources from 
a phase II neoadjuvant clinical trial (NCT03499353), analyzing tumors from 
patients with germline BRCA1/2 mutant breast tumors before and after six months 
of talazoparib monotherapy. Whole-transcriptome analyses were performed on these 
samples. Additionally, we established orthotopic patient-derived xenograft 
models from a subset of the patient tumors and conducted whole-exome and 
whole-transcriptome analysis. This integrative approach revealed both known and 
previously unknown PARPi resistance mechanisms. In one case, overexpression of 
BRN2, encoding a transcription factor that plays a critical role in 
neurogenesis, led to activation of ATR/RAD51 and STAT3 pathways, restoring HR 
repair. BRN2-driven resistance could be reversed with ATR and STAT3 inhibitors, 
resensitizing cells to talazoparib. In another, an HR repair proficient tumor 
subclone lacking Shieldin 2 expression expanded during treatment and accounted 
for intrinsic resistance. Our findings highlight the need to determine intrinsic 
and anticipate acquired resistance pathways in treatment-naïve tumors and 
support combining PARPi with targeted agents to improve outcomes in the 
neoadjuvant setting.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2513742123
PMID: 41961819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests statement:Dr. Litton is on 
the advisory board of Gilead (uncompensated). Dr. Litton receives research 
support (to her Institution) from Medivation, Pfizer, Merck, Zenith, EMD-Serono, 
Genentech, Astra-Zeneca.


10. Breast Cancer. 2026 Apr 10. doi: 10.1007/s12282-026-01855-2. Online ahead of 
print.

BRCA1/2 Reversion Mutations in Japanese Patients with Metastatic Breast Cancer 
Progressing on Olaparib: OLIVE (WJOG15321B).

Sakai H(1), Kusumoto-Matsuo R(2), Hosonaga M(3), Nozawa K(4), Futamura M(5), 
Tanabe Y(6), Mukohara T(7), Shiraishi K(8), Toyama T(9), Yasojima H(10), 
Watanabe N(11), Sakai H(12), Iwasa T(13), Takeuchi N(14), Tada H(15), Sakai 
K(16), Chiba N(17), Takano T(3), Tsurutani J(2).

Author information:
(1)Advanced Cancer Translational Research Institute, Showa Medical University, 
1-5-8 Hatanodai, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, 142-8555, Japan. 
sakai-h@med.showa-u.ac.jp.
(2)Advanced Cancer Translational Research Institute, Showa Medical University, 
1-5-8 Hatanodai, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo, 142-8555, Japan.
(3)Breast Oncology Center, Cancer Institute Hospital of the Japanese Foundation 
for Cancer Research, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Breast Oncology, Aichi Cancer Center, Nagoya, Japan.
(5)Department of Breast Surgery, Gifu University Hospital, Gifu, Japan.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Department of Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital East, Kashiwa, Japan.
(8)Department of Medical Oncology, NHO Nagoya Medical Center, Nagoya, Japan.
(9)Department of Breast Surgery, Nagoya City University, Nagoya, Japan.
(10)Department of Surgery, Breast Oncology, NHO Osaka National Hospital, Osaka, 
Japan.
(11)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Osaka International Cancer 
Institute, Osaka, Japan.
(12)Department of Medical Oncology, Hyogo Cancer Center, Akashi, Japan.
(13)Department of Medical Oncology, Kindai University Faculty of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan.
(14)Department of Oncology, Ina Central Hospital, Ina, Japan.
(15)Department of Surgery, Division of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Tohoku 
University Hospital, Sendai, Japan.
(16)Department of Genome Biology, Kindai University Faculty of Medicine, Osaka, 
Japan.
(17)Department of Cancer Biology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer 
(IDAC), Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-026-01855-2
PMID: 41961224

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Conflict of interest: HS received 
honoraria from Daiichi Sankyo, Eli Lilly, Gilead Sciences, AstraZeneca, and 
Pfizer, and medical writing support from Daiichi Sankyo outside the submitted 
work. MF received honoraria from Chugai and Daiichi Sankyo. TM received research 
funding (to the institution) from MSD, AstraZeneca, Eisai, Sanofi, Novartis 
Pharma, Bayer, ONO Pharmaceutical, Daiichi Sankyo, Chugai Pharmaceutical, 
Pfizer, Gilead Sciences, Merck Biopharma, Seagen, Astellas Pharma, Sysmex, and 
Exact Sciences; and honoraria from Terumo, Bayer, MICIN, Kyowa Kirin, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Eli Lilly, MI-Force, AstraZeneca, Eisai, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Chugai 
Pharmaceutical, Shionogi, Pfizer, and Ono Pharmaceutical. He is an advisory 
board member of Pfizer and AstraZeneca. TaT received honoraria from Chugai, 
Daiichi Sankyo, Pfizer, MSD, Eli Lilly, Novartis, and Taiho. HT received 
honoraria from Chugai Pharmaceutical, Eli Lilly, Pfizer, and Daiichi Sankyo. KS 
received honoraria for lectures from Takeda Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Nippon 
Kayaku Co., Ltd., and Qiagen, Inc., and honoraria for manuscript writing from 
Life Technologies Japan Ltd. NC received research funding from AstraZeneca 
outside the submitted work. ToT received honoraria from Daiichi Sankyo, Eli 
Lilly, and Gilead Sciences. JT received research funding from Daiichi Sankyo 
Co., Ltd., outside the submitted work; honoraria from Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., 
AstraZeneca K.K., Eli Lilly Japan K.K., Pfizer Japan Inc., Eisai Co., Ltd., 
Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., MSD K.K., and Gilead 
Sciences, Inc.; consulting fees from Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., AstraZeneca K.K., 
Seagen Inc., Pfizer Japan Inc., and Gilead Sciences, Inc.; and his institution 
received research funding from Eli Lilly Japan K.K., Kyowa Kirin Co., Ltd., 
Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., Chugai Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., MSD K.K., and 
Eisai Co., Ltd., outside the submitted work. All other authors declare no 
competing financial or non-financial interests. Ethical approval and consent to 
participate: Study protocol was approved by the institutional review board 
(Approval number: 21-029-B). Informed consent was obtained from all participants 
involved in the study.